735 tutorials tarskul (#754)
spine-tools/SpineOpt.jl: docs/src/tutorial/simple_system.md

### Installation and upgrades

If you haven't yet installed the tools or you are not sure whether you have the latest version,
please follow the installation/upgrade guides: 
- For Spine Toolbox: [Spine Toolbox installation guide](https://github.com/spine-tools/Spine-Toolbox#installation)
- For SpineOpt: [SpineOpt installation guide](https://github.com/spine-tools/SpineOpt.jl#installation)

## Guide

### Spine Toolbox workflow

The workflow for this tutorial is quite simple: A SpineOpt tool that 
reads data from an input database, executes the simulation/optimization 
and writes the results to an output database.

> It is almost as simple as dragging these items (i.e. Data Store and Run SpineOpt) 

Reviewer: This is a very chill way to say this, but the first time I read it I didn't realize I actually needed to do these steps until later. I think it could be a bit more clear.

Author: I've adjusted this very slightly but it may be enough to make it clearer that they should create the workflow.

to the *Design View* and connecting them by dragging arrows between the blocks 

> but there are some things that configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but there are some things that need to be configured:
```

-   The databases need to be initialised. Once you select a database
    you see the properties panel. Select the dialect of the database.
    Here we choose sqlite. Then press the button 'new spine db' to 
    create and save the database on your computer 
    (Spine Toolbox will suggest a good folder).

> -   The arrows in the Toolbox view are only the available items (databases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The arrows in the Toolbox view show the available items (databases).
```

Author: The point was to emphasize that the yellow arrows don't mean that the tools understand that they need to use these items. I've rephrased it to convey that idea better.

    To let SpineOpt know we want to use these items, we need to go to the 
    properties panel of Run SpineOpt and drag the available items to the 
    tool arguments. The order of the items is first the input, then the output.

>     See below for how the property window should look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See below for how the property window should look.
```
_How_ it should _look_. _What_ it should look _like_. (At least in American English - we're weird.)

![image](../figs_simple_system/simple_system_spinetoolbox_run_spineopt.png)

-   (optional) The Spine data stores are quite generic. In order for SpineOpt to be able 
    to read the input database, we need to change its format from the Spine format 
    to the SpineOpt format. Luckily we can use templates for this. One of those 
    templates is made available as an item in Spine Toolbox: Load template. 
    The other option is to load templates into the database using the db editor. 

>     The templates can also be used to already populate the database with some basic 
>     components as well. Here we briefly explain the use of the Load template 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The templates can also be used to pre-populate the database with some basic 
    components. Here we briefly explain the use of the Load template 
```

    block and later we show how to import a template and basic components with the 
    spine db editor. To use the Load template block, drag it to the view and connect 
    it to the input database. Just like the Run SpineOpt block we need to drag the 
    available input database to the tool argument.

> The result could look like this (+/- the Load template block):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result should look similar to this (+/- the Load template block):
```

    *Add relationships* from the context menu. The *Add relationships*
    dialog will pop up.

!!! note
    Alternatively right click the objects in the graph view and 
    *add relationships* will show the available relationships. 

>     If your relationship relies on nodes and units they both need 

Reviewer: This is something I found confusing for the first run-through. I kept creating things and then they'd vanish! Maybe note somewhere that things have to be selected to show up? Or tell them how to make everything visible earlier on?

Author: I don't know exactly what happened to you but I've rephrased it and I think it should be clearer now.

    release energy into the *electricity\_node*.
![image](../figs_simple_system/simple_system_add_unit__to_node_relationships.png)

-   Right click on the *unit\_\_node\_\_node* class, and select
    *Add relationships* from the context menu. The *Add relationships*
    dialog will pop up.

-   For each of the units enter the unit under *unit*,
    *electricity_node* under the first node and *fuel_node* under the 
    second node. These relationships will define the relation (or behavior)
     between the output and input of the unit.
![image](../figs_simple_system/simple_system_add_unit__node__node.png)

!!! note

>     The *unit\_\_node\_\_node* relationship is necessary to bind the flow 

Reviewer: Set a boundary for the flow? "Binding" sounds weird to me, but maybe it's just a term I haven't heard yet.

Author: I'm going to trust your english more than mine.

    (flows are unbound by default) and to define an efficiency.
    The order of the nodes is important for that definition (see later on).
    It may seem unintuitive to define an efficiency through a three-way 

>     relationship instead of a property of a unit, but this approach allows 
>     to define efficiencies between any flow coming in and out of the unit (e.g. CHP). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    relationship instead of a property of a unit, but this approach allows you
    to define efficiencies between any flow(s) coming in and out of the unit (e.g. CHP). 
```

-   In the *Object parameter* table (typically at the top-center),
    select the *demand* parameter and the *Base*
    alternative, and enter the value *150* as seen in the
    image below. This will establish that there's a demand of '150'
    at the electricity node.
![image](../figs_simple_system/simple_system_electricity_demand.png)

!!! note
    The alternative name is not optional. If you don't select *Base* 
    (or another name) you will not be able to save your data.

>     Speaking of which, when is the last time you saved/committed?

Reviewer: This is funny, but maybe also useful to remind them _how_ to save/commit, since it wasn't super clear the first time that that's what you should be doing regularly. It just says "Go here - commit - comment that you're saving." Especially for users who aren't familiar with what "commit" means.

Author: I've made it more explicit the first time the commit instruction is given.

>     *0.8*, respectively. It should like the image below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *0.8*, respectively. It should look like the image below.
```

![image](../figs_simple_system/simple_system_fix_ratio_out_in_unit_flow.png)

!!! note
    The order of the nodes is important for the *fix\_ratio\_out\_in\_unit\_flow* 
    parameter. If you have swapped the nodes or inverted the efficiency values, 
    the Run SpineOpt tool will run into errors.

> When you're ready, commit all changes to the database.

Reviewer: Assume this is the same steps as saving.

Author: Also here I've made it more explicit.
